My name is Gordon Meyer.
I work in Apple's
Instructional Products group.
Instructional Products makes the
on-screen help and the printed
manuals that come with Apple products.
And in this session, we're going to be
talking about Apple Help.
You know,
it was five years ago at WWDC that
Apple Help was first introduced.
For back in Mac OS 8.5, it was.
So I see some people who have been
with us all along from the very
beginning and developing for it.
Thank you.
Today we're going to have some
changes to announce that I think
you'll be very pleased about.
You've certainly been very
patient waiting for them.
And I see a lot of new faces, too.
So I hope you're here to find
out what Apple Help is all about.
If you're waiting on the fence to see if
we're serious about an HTML help system,
well, you can keep waiting another
five years or come on in.
The water's fine.
We'll talk about how you
actually generate your content.
You'll see how easy it
is to hook things up.
Now I'm the kind of guy who
likes to eat dessert first,
so we're going to start with a demo.
And the demo is where all
the exciting stuff is,
and so we'll do that first.
And in fact,
there are so many changes to Apple Help,
so I'm going to start with a demo.
I think you've reached the hood in
the last year that you might say,
"My goodness, you've changed everything."
Well, we've changed a lot.
But you don't have to worry.
If you've been developing
for Apple Help for a while,
your stuff still works.
So in that sense, we've changed nothing.
From then, we're going to talk about how
to develop for Apple Help.
You'll see how simple and easy it
is to get your book in the help
system and running under the system.
And then finally,
we're going to wrap up with some tips
about how to optimize your help system
and how to take advantage of some of the
unique features that Apple Help presents.
So I'll let you in on a secret.
We're actually going
to finish early today.
We don't have the full time allotted.
That's not because there
isn't a lot to cover,
because there is,
and there's lots of things to say.
You'll get to listen to me
blab for several minutes.
But it's really a short
presentation because Apple Help is
so simple and straightforward.
We've worked really hard to make
sure that you can deploy your
help content quickly and easily.
But enough of that.
Let's get to the demo.
So, to get started here,
I'm going to open up the Help Viewer.
This is Panther that you all
have in your registration kits.
Wow!
Look at that.
That was fast, wasn't it?
In fact,
I almost don't believe it wasn't running.
Let's try it again.
About two and a half seconds.
Yeah.
Sure.
You know,
I saw you in the back of the room.
I said I was going to open up the help,
and you got up to go to Jamba Juice.
Figured you could make it back in
time before I was ready to talk again.
It's much faster in Panther.
We've done a lot of things
to really improve it,
and I know that was a
much-needed improvement.
We certainly are aware of that and have
heard it loud and clear from all of you.
But that's not all.
You'll notice as I mouse
over this sample page here,
we're getting some text decoration,
and that's being accomplished.
The links are underlining.
That's being accomplished with CSS.
There's a style sheet here that
specifies this text decoration.
So Help Viewer now works with
cascading style sheets and HTML4.
In fact, it works so well with web
standards that you can now go out
to the Internet and find a site
that generates content for you,
creates HTML templates,
and use them yourself.
Just to prove the point,
I went out and found such a site
and asked it to create a couple
of dummy help pages for me.
Now, I don't necessarily recommend
these as great help layouts,
but they do serve a
really interesting point.
I'm going to show you how to create
a style sheet for your Mac OS X.
This is HTML 4.0 with a style sheet.
As I click these buttons here,
you'll notice that I'm getting
some nice rollover effects,
and lots of colors are changing,
and content is rearranging
itself on the page.
That's all accomplished through
CSS with the same body text appearing
in each one of these styles.
This turns out to be really powerful
not just for web development,
but for help development, too.
Because the more you can do to separate
style and decoration from the content,
the easier time you have
developing your content.
So finally,
you can do that with Help Viewer.
Another thing we support is JavaScript.
So this is a very simple
JavaScript demonstration
downloaded from another website
and just dropped into Help Viewer.
You'll notice that the time is
incrementing as I talk here.
There are lots of things you can
do with JavaScript in the Help,
and luckily they all just seem to work.
I'll stop the timer there and start it.
This go-back button isn't a
hard link to the previous page,
but rather a JavaScript function
that tells the viewer to
go back in its history,
to go back in time.
And that works in Help Viewer
just as you'd expect it to.
So finally, web standard support and
help viewer for Panther.
Let's go back to slides.
So how did we accomplish this?
Well, it's no secret if you've read
your program or have been
attending other sessions,
Help Viewer is now a client of WebKit.
We're using the Safari technology
to support all of our HTML display.
This gives us a lot of speed
and a whole lot of standards.
Help Viewer now supports HTML 4.0.1.
That includes frames
and tables and forms,
something you couldn't
do in Help Viewer before.
Cascading Style Sheets Levels 1, 2,
and 3, such as it is so far.
JavaScript 1.4.
DOM Levels 0, 1, and 2,
including some Microsoft DOM extensions.
and support for Netscape Cookies,
Netscape-style plugins, Java applets,
more character sets than
you can shake a stick at,
bidirectional text,
and contextual letter forms,
whatever those are.
Seriously, I probably don't even
have the complete list.
What you should do,
since you're help authors,
is go to the session noted there.
It's session 411, Web Standards.
It's 10.30 tomorrow morning.
You'll hear from the Safari team,
from the people who implement WebKit,
and all of the stuff they talk about.
It works in Help now,
and you can use it when
you deploy Apple Help.
And while you're there, say,
thank you for me.
But there actually is
more to Help Viewer.
We've done more than
just implement WebKit.
We've made a number of changes that make
it so much faster and easier to use.
We've updated and standardized
our download policy.
Now, Help Viewer uses the Internet to
retrieve remote content.
It wasn't very fast at that.
And in fact,
sometimes we retrieve content
when it wasn't necessary.
What we do now is we use the
cache more as you'd expect,
and we check the user's
network connection.
If the user has a network connection
and has a good network connection,
meaning that the servers
are responding quickly,
then we will ask the server
if there is anything newer.
And if there is something newer,
we download it and put it in the cache.
If there isn't something newer,
then we show what we have
on the machine already,
that being either the cached
copy or the local copy that you
installed with your help system.
This is a good change.
It really speeds things up.
So you might say that
we've changed everything.
We certainly have made everything faster.
And we've adopted a lot of
standards underneath the hood.
Another thing that we've done is
we've improved launch time by changing
the way that index files are loaded.
Now in Apple Help,
books are indexed for searching.
That's how we get our
searching capability.
And we're going to talk more
about searching in a few minutes.
One change for Panther is that the
Help Viewer expects to find the
index for the book in the location
where the indexing tool put it.
And it expects it to have the name
that the indexing tool created for it.
So please don't change the
name of your index file.
And don't change its location.
Now if you do,
Help Viewer will still find it.
It'll go traipsing through your
book and find what it needs.
But as you can imagine,
that slows it down.
So you can help all of us keep
Help Viewer faster by leaving
your index file as it was
created by the indexing tool.
Now what I'd like to do is talk
about how to deploy Apple Help.
Now the main point is that all of your
existing content continues to work.
A book created for Apple Help in
Mac OS 8.5 works today.
One thing you do want to do, though,
is look at your content using the help
viewer you have on your Panther CD.
The renderer is different,
and every HTML renderer has
slightly different ideas about
font metrics and sizing and
placement and that sort of thing.
So I'm very confident that what
you have is going to look good,
but it might look a little different
than it does under previous
incarnations of the help viewer.
So it would be a good idea to
look at it and see if you're
happy with it and maybe make any
HTML adjustments you feel are necessary.
You'll also want to look
at your QuickTime movies.
If you have QuickTime movies
in your Help,
they're still going to work.
But previously, Help Viewer played
QuickTime files natively.
Now,
Help Viewer uses the QuickTime plugin.
This is a good thing because it
gives you lots more parameters you
can use with the embed command.
The QuickTime plugin supports
all sorts of interesting options.
You might want to take a look at those.
Those are documented in QuickTime Help.
And see if there are any you want to
take advantage of now with Panther.
If you don't change anything,
you can expect your QuickTime movies
to behave as they did before.
So that covers the changes
to Apple Help for Panther.
Let's spend the next few minutes
talking about what Apple Help is,
why you might want to use it,
and what you can do when you deploy
your help book to take advantage
of some of its unique features.
So what is Apple Help?
Well, Apple Help is the help
system for Mac OS X.
It's built in, and sort of the most
visible component of that,
the thing that users interact with,
the thing that we all see,
is the Help Viewer.
The Help Viewer is an optimized,
lightweight HTML browser,
and it's optimized for help delivery.
What we've done is we've built in a
lot of features and a lot of careful
attention to the UI to make sure that
it's good for delivering help and it
provides a consistent user experience.
If you went to John Glensy's
Adopting Aqua session yesterday,
you might remember that he talked
about Apple Help as one of the key
components of Aqua and one of the
checklist points for ensuring that
you're providing a good Aqua experience.
One of the reasons for that is that
users turn to help when they're the
most frustrated with their computer.
Most users don't read
the help just for fun.
They do it to find out
an answer to a question.
They're trying to accomplish something.
They've reached an impasse.
They're trying to use your UI or
they have another question and
they don't know how to proceed.
So at that point, they come to the help.
By coming to the help viewer,
they have a consistent user interface,
one that they've seen before,
that behaves the way they expect,
that provides lots of features,
one of which is full text searching.
Our searching is relevancy ranked,
so when you type in your question,
you get a nice list of results back.
And the presentation of those results
is similar to what users experience in
other searching throughout the system,
such as the Finder and Sherlock and Mail.
It's not a part of the user
interface that people have to
figure out because it's different
in help than it is anywhere else.
Now our search engine is really fast,
and it's really pretty good.
It supports natural language query,
so while you can type in "burn CD"
or "fire bad" if you're the Hulk,
I guess, it's better to type in something
like "how do I make a CD?
How do I record a CD?"
The Help Viewer will parse that
correctly and give you the results
in a nice relevancy-ranked way.
Another feature of HelpViewer
is AppleScript-based automation.
We have special help colon URLs that
can trigger an AppleScript.
So if your application
is AppleScriptable,
you can provide links within your
help that automate actions for users.
This is a great way to speed users
back into using the interface
and getting a problem solved.
You can automate things
like changing preferences,
opening preference dialogues,
completing tasks for the user and
so your instructions are shorter,
so they're less complicated,
and you just have a better experience
with the help in your product.
It's another great reason to make
your application AppleScriptable
because you can take advantage of
it yourself in your help system.
We've talked a little bit about
the display of multimedia content.
Help Viewer does that.
It now uses plug-ins.
QuickTime and Flash are built-in
because they're distributed
automatically with WebKit,
but as additional plug-ins
are loaded into WebKit,
they become available
for use in Help Viewer.
This opens up a lot of interesting doors,
particularly if you're documenting
a high-end application and you
need a specialized plug-in to
display parts of your help content,
now you can do it.
Gordon Meyer
HelpViewer also supports
remote and local content.
This is a somewhat hidden
feature of the help,
but it's very powerful
as a software developer.
This allows you to ship your
application's help with your product
and then continue to maintain that help
on the internet as you discover what
kinds of questions people are having,
as you discover mistakes
in the documentation,
or other enhancements you can make.
You make these available to your
customers simply by updating the copy of
the help that's on your internet server.
HelpViewer retrieves it for you and
displays it for the user when they
have a good network connection.
We're going to talk a little
bit later how to best take
advantage of this feature of help.
And finally, the last and perhaps most
important advantage of using
Apple Help is that there are
system-wide APIs for calling it.
Certainly that's how the Help menu works,
which we're going to talk
about in a little bit,
but there are also other ways to talk
to Help Viewer that allow you to provide
a good help experience for your users
using things like Help buttons and so on.
So, maybe I've sold you.
You say, wow, Gordon, that's great.
How do I make my Apple Help book?
How do I get started?
Well,
It's really very easy,
and there are only four steps.
So let's go over them.
Step one is develop your help content.
Write your HTML.
Now,
you can do this in whatever authoring
tool you normally use-- BB Edit,
Dreamweaver, GoLive.
And now, because we use WebKit and
support web standards,
you can even use tools on other
platforms that create help.
I know that a lot of you use
things like RoboHelp and so on.
You can get them to output in a
format that supports web standards
and will now work in Help Viewer.
So the only thing special
you have to do to your HTML,
over and above writing it
like you normally would,
is to add one meta tag.
It's the Apple title meta tag,
and the value of the tag is
the name of your help book.
Now, this is a really important value.
You put this in the
start page of your book,
your home page,
whatever page it is that you want users
to see when they open Help Viewer.
viewer.
Add this tag, and it provides the name
of your book to the system,
and as we talk about some of the
other things that you need to do,
you'll see why this Apple title
tag is so important.
The nice thing about this,
because meta is a standard HTML tag,
you can go ahead and
add it to your content,
and even if you deploy
that content elsewhere,
such as on your website,
it won't interfere with anything.
Browser is all expected,
and just ignore it.
So after you've authored your
HTML and added that meta tag,
step number two is to index
your help for searching.
Our search engine works because
Help content is pre-indexed.
To do this,
you use the Apple Help indexing tool,
which you already have.
It's installed in developer applications.
There are a few preferences you
want to look at and decide to set.
One is to enter a remote
route for your content.
If you're going to put Help on the
Internet and you want it updated,
then you enter an HTTP path in
the indexing tool preferences.
You want to select a
tokenizer for your language,
particularly if you're not using English,
which is the default.
And you want to turn on anchor indexing.
Now, anchor indexing is a very unique
way for the help viewer to find
content within your help book.
We're going to talk about
it in a couple of minutes,
but basically it allows you to call
an individual page in help without
having to know what file it appears in.
So after you've set your preferences,
you take your folder full
of your HTML content,
and you drop it on the indexing tool.
The indexing tool scans it all
and writes out an index file
that's used by the search engine.
Now remember, it puts that index file in
the place where Help Viewer
is going to expect to find it,
and it gives it a name.
The name is derived from
the folder-- the name of the
folder that you dropped on it.
Help Viewer is going to look for
that file by that name when it loads.
So please just leave it as
the index tool creates it,
and performance will be better.
If you do change it,
your help will still work.
It will just open a little bit
slower than we'd like it to.
Step number three, that's a short one.
After you've added the Apple meta
tag and you've indexed your content,
then you put your content
inside your applications bundle.
If it's a localized resource,
you want to add it in the
correct Lproj directory.
Step number four,
this is hooking up your Help menu.
Now, this is different
between Cocoa and Carbon.
If you're a Cocoa application,
you add two keys to your info P list.
CFBundle Help Book Folder,
which is the name of the help folder,
the name of the folder that
you dropped on the indexing
tool when you did the index.
And the other key is
CFBundle Help Book Name.
This matches the Apple title
that you put in the start page of
your help way back in step one.
This is how the help viewer
associates the name of your book
with your application and the
name that you use in the APIs.
It's pretty simple,
just add those two tags.
Next, a cosmetic point,
but an important one.
In Interface Builder,
you want to change the item in the
Help menu to match your application,
instead of the generic
name that Interface Builder
gives you automatically.
Now, if you're a Carbon app,
you do it slightly different.
You also add the two keys to your
info.p list that we just discussed,
and then in your code,
after you're initialized,
call ahRegisterHelpBook,
and point to the bundle
that contains your help.
This lets the help viewer and the
help system know about your book and
associate it with your application.
On Carbon,
this call is taken care of automatically.
In Cocoa,
it's taken care of automatically.
Carbon, you make this call.
Now the details and some sample
code about how to do this are
in the Apple Help tutorial.
Rather than talk you through the code,
I want to refer you to there because
it covers all of these steps,
and it gives you some additional
information on the code.
And you already have that tutorial.
It's installed in developer
documentation on your systems.
So to summarize, four steps.
Create your content
and add an Apple Help,
an Apple title meta tag.
Index your help so it can be searched.
Install it in your applications bundle.
And then hook up your help menu.
And believe it or not,
you're done at that point.
You have a full working help system.
When you choose help from
your applications help menu,
help viewer will open,
display your content,
and people will be able to search it.
You can maybe even go
home early that day.
But I hope you won't,
because there's a few things
you can do to optimize your help
and make it a little bit better.
So let's spend a little
bit of time on that.
So one thing you can do to provide
a really good help experience is to
optimize your content for searching.
As Scott Forstall mentioned
in his talk on Monday,
searching is really becoming a
ubiquitous way of accessing information.
There's a lot of search
language in the interface and
a lot of consistent searching
experiences that counts for help.
And when users are frustrated
and they're coming to help to
find an answer to the question,
they know what it is they're looking for,
typing in a few words gets them to the
answer in the most quickest way possible.
But that puts the requirement on you as
the help author to make sure that people
can find your content by searching.
There are a few things
you can think about doing,
one of which is to use
the robots meta tag.
Robots is a standard meta tag
used by lots of search engines,
not just ours.
You can add it to your pages and
it will work if you also put your
help content on the Internet for
people to look at in their browser.
Probably the most useful value for
this is the "noindex" robots tag.
"Noindex" tells the search engine to
not index any content in that page,
to make this page
invisible for searching.
So why would you want to do that?
Well, a couple of key reasons.
One is you probably want to make your
Table of Contents page not searchable.
It has a whole lot of words on it,
because it's your Table of Contents,
it covers your entire helpbook,
and if people search and find that,
it's not particularly helpful,
it just has a bunch more links and
it might not be clear which one of
those triggered the search result.
So make your Table of Contents noindex.
Another time you might want to do
this is if you have a series of pages
that you have people click through.
Maybe you have four steps and
each step is on a separate page.
When people are searching,
they might come into
step two on page two,
or step three on page three,
come in in the middle of
the procedure and be lost,
and not really kind of say, well,
I don't understand what's going on here.
So in that case,
you might want to add the
no index tag to pages two,
three, and four,
making sure that when people search,
they only find page one,
and they get started on the right step.
There are some other values
that you can provide in robots,
and those are keywords and anchors.
So let's talk about those.
Keywords are really important
because when people come
and enter search queries,
they're representing
the task as they see it.
So you need to think about how are
users going to phrase questions,
what types of words are they
going to type in to look for
this particular help content.
This is a way you can provide that
on the page in an invisible way.
Keywords don't appear
to the user on the page.
They're not rendered by the HTML,
but they're picked up
by the search engine,
and they're given the equal
weight of the rest of the content.
So keywords aren't weighted more heavily.
They're just treated as if they
appear on the page normally.
But of course,
they don't appear on the page.
And one of the most common uses for
this is misspelling or a synonym.
Particularly in the technology world,
there's lots of technologies
that real people,
regular people don't
really know how to spell.
And even something like rendezvous
can be challenging to spell
for an English-speaking user.
So we try and keyword for
a misspelling for that.
Also think about things
like disk and disks,
right?
Hominems,
users might not be thinking of that one,
of what the correct form of the
spelling is when they're looking
for something related to that.
Think about the range of users you serve,
someone phrasing in a question
from an expert's point of view,
or from a very novice point of view.
You might want to include something
like silver round thingy for CDs,
which is what my
father-in-law calls them.
So, keywords are important
things to add to your pages.
You just add them in there
and do it once or twice.
They stay there for the entire life
of your content and they're picked up
by the search engine automatically.
Now, earlier I mentioned an example of
where you might have four pages
and you've no indexed pages two,
three and four, so they don't show up and
only page one shows up.
Well, that's a good strategy,
but you do have to think about
what was on those three pages
you just blocked from the search
engine and are those words,
do those pages contain words
that users are going to want to
search for because they won't find
them if you've no indexed them.
You want to take some of those key
phrases and use them as keywords on
that first page and that way people
will find that first page very easily.
Another step you can do to make your
help work really well in a search
environment is to add page summaries.
Now, page summaries are provided
with the description meta tag.
And again, it's a standard HTML thing.
Lots of search engines use description,
and so does Help Viewer.
And in Help Viewer's case,
the description shows up in the search
results when the user clicks the result.
You see a little preview of what it is
you might get when you click that page.
This helps users decide if
they've gotten the right hit,
if that's the page that appears
to answer their question,
if that's one they want to look at.
So these are easy to add.
They do become searchable
content as well,
so they'll generate hits.
So again, think about how users might
be looking for your page,
and think about an appropriate
summary that might give them the
answer they need without having to
actually visit the entire page itself.
And by combining those two approaches,
you can make sure that the
search results work really well.
So let's change gears a little bit
and talk about how to further connect
your application to the help system.
We talked about how to
hook up your help menu,
and that's the minimum you should do.
That works really well.
You choose help from
your applications menu,
and you have the help
viewer with your content.
But there are other things you can
do to make sure that users get the
type of content they're looking for
depending upon the situation they're in.
Now, there are basically three ways you
can call Help Viewer directly from
your app or from other places.
You can use a help: URL.
You can do this in any HTML anywhere.
When the user clicks it,
Help Viewer will launch and
handle the URL that you asked for.
You could use an Apple script,
tell Help Viewer to do something.
And of course,
there are C APIs that trigger
things to happen in the help.
So what kind of things can
you do when you call the help?
Well, you can perform a search,
give it a search string,
a phrase to look for,
and you can specify what book to look in,
whether it's your own book,
somebody else's if you
think it will be installed,
such as Mac Help,
or all of the books that
the help viewer knows about.
You can also open a help book.
It's a very simple call,
and when you do that,
the help viewer opens to the page
that has your Apple title tag,
your start page.
Gordon Meyer
And you can display a
specific page in Help.
So let's talk about that one.
This is typically what you would
want to do from a Help button,
as you see in the little
illustration there,
a little round button
with a question mark.
You use this to provide contextual help.
This might appear on a
dialog or a preference pane,
and when the user clicks it,
they should see content that's specific
to what it is they're looking at,
content that's targeted to
the condition that they're in.
So you can do that by
specifically calling a page.
The best way to do that in
Help Viewer is to use an anchor.
Now if you're an HTML author,
you're used to anchors being
A specific location on a specific page.
Help Viewer treats them
a little bit differently.
To help viewer,
an anchor is a thing that appears
on a page in your help book.
You specify them using a standard
anchor syntax like you see there.
When you index your content
and turn on anchor indexing,
these are noted by the indexing tool,
and Help Viewer resolves
the locations at that time,
saying, ah,
anchor foo appears on page 123 HTML.
Then, when your application
tells the help viewer,
"Hey, display the page with anchor
foo," it knows it's on 123
and displays the page for you.
You make this call using ahlookup anchor.
So one of the advantages of this is that
you don't have to think about what page,
what physical page in the file
system that anchor appears on.
Those people who are authoring the help
can move the anchor from page to page.
Even if that's you,
you can put on your other hat and move
the anchor from page to page without
ever having to go back and change the
application to point to a different file.
Another advantage this gives you
is that Help Viewer resolves this
anchor in the correct language.
So if you've localized your book
and the user is running in Spanish,
when you ask for this anchor,
the Help Viewer will display the
Spanish page that has this anchor.
Let's shift gears again and talk
about remote and local content.
I've mentioned that we've optimized
Panther a number of ways to
make this work a lot better.
Users no longer have to wait for content
to be downloaded from the Internet,
and that's a good thing.
We've moved all the downloading
off into the background.
So what does Help Viewer
do in this regard?
It's even more invisible now.
Well,
there's basically two things that happen.
One is that if you have provided
a remote route for your help book,
and again,
a remote route is just an HTTP location
somewhere on the Internet.
If the user is connected to
the Internet and they have
a good network connection,
then Help Viewer is going to
look at your remote route,
and see if there's a newer
index file for your book.
If there is a newer index,
then it brings that index down
and caches it for the user.
What this allows you to do is
continue to change and refine
your help content over time.
You can remove pages, and to do that,
you re-index your,
you remove the HTML file
from your help book,
re-index the book,
and then put that new index
file out on the Internet.
When users pull it down,
because all searching is
done through the index,
that page is now essentially
invisible to your users.
Gordon Meyer
More likely you can add pages.
If there are pages you didn't
have done or you didn't think of,
or you want to improve,
you can put those on the
internet at your remote route,
re-index your help content,
put the new index on the internet,
help viewer will retrieve
it automatically for
users who can get to it,
and those new pages become
available to the user.
They now show up in search results.
Now those new pages are on
the internet and they do have
to be connected to view them.
But when they do view them,
they'll be cached and saved for
the user for future reference.
So that's automatic index updating and
how it works and the benefit it provides.
Another level of Internet support in
Help Viewer is called Internet Primary.
This is different than index updating.
When you turn on the
Internet Primary checkbox for your book,
and you do this in the indexing tool,
there's a preference for it,
This tells the help viewer to
prefer the content you have at your
remote root over the local content.
When the user requests a page,
when they click on a link,
help viewer will check to see if
they have a good network connection,
and if they do,
it will check on the server to
see if the page they're looking
at is newer on the server,
and if it is,
then that page will be displayed.
If they're not connected,
or they don't have a good connection,
then it looks in the cache to see if
it has a copy that it previously got,
or it defaults to the local
content that is installed
inside your applications bundle.
This is a really interesting
feature of HelpViewer,
and it's one that's quite powerful,
although I found in talking to lots of
developers over the last year since we've
added this to HelpViewer that it kind
of requires a little shift in mindset
in terms of thinking about having content
done and shipped with the product and
then continue to maintain it over time.
But it's nice because it allows
your help content to be as fresh
and as up-to-date and as correct
as people expect from the web,
but here they're actually experiencing it
directly from your application instead of
having to go off on a website and visit
your support site to get the latest info.
Now if you're going to do remote content,
there's a couple things to keep in mind.
It's really good to think about
organizing your content so
it's a single topic per page.
Now this is really
good for searching too,
because remember in search results,
what the user sees in the results
list is the title of the page.
If you have several topics on that page,
that puts a lot of burden on the
title of the page to kind of convey to
the user what all is included there.
If you break it up,
then it's easier to write a good
title and so people understand what
it is they're looking at and whether
or not they want to view the page.
Well, short pages with a single topic
are good for remote content,
too, because they're shorter
and they download faster.
Another thing you can do is
to set your cache periods.
Now previously,
Help Viewer would delete items from
the cache after three days unless
they specified a cache retention
period using the cache meta tag.
And the cache meta tag
provides an expiration date.
It's kind of like the
date on a carton of milk.
It tells Help Viewer when this page
is bad and should be discarded.
Now caching works a
little bit differently.
Since caching is handled
through WebKit and the
other changes in the system,
cached pages stick around
when there's space.
And if space needs to be created,
then pages that specified
expiration dates are removed first.
So if you want a page that you want
to make sure sticks around and doesn't
get deleted because space is needed,
you don't have to think in
terms of three days anymore.
You just have to think of,
I want this page to stick around,
so I'm going to give it an
expiration date in the future.
It's okay to do that because in
an Internet primary situation,
we'll still do a compare
of the page to the server,
and if there's a newer one,
we'll still get the
newer page if it exists.
Otherwise,
we'll use the one in the cache.
There's also some other cache directives,
and these are standard HTML things.
You can tell it to never cache a page,
which might be appropriate on a
late-breaking news page or something that
you want to get out to users temporarily,
but you think you're
going to get rid of later.
You can also tell it to keep a page
nearly indefinitely by changing
the cache expiration date to
something very far in the future.
Finally,
if you're going to use remote content,
think about the graphics
that you're using.
You ship a large graphic that displays
in Help just fine with local content
but in an Internet primary situation,
if you have modified that
graphic on your web server,
HelpViewer is going to see that
it's newer and it's going to want
to download it and of course,
if it's a big graphic,
then it will take longer to download.
Just something to keep in mind in regards
to Internet primary that eventually,
if you maintain it on the Internet,
as you've planned,
you will be triggering downloads
for people and you might want to
think about how big those are.
So, in summary, we've made a lot of
changes to Help Viewer.
Most of them have been very long
sought after and are very exciting.
It's now much faster than
it ever has been before.
It uses HTML standards,
which opens up a lot of new
doors for content development,
makes it much easier to deploy your
Apple Help because you can use authoring
tools that understand and create
HTML that was invented after 1996,
and it's smarter about Internet usage.
In addition,
if you've been thinking about
using Apple Help and you weren't
really sure what it was all about,
I hope you've seen that
it provides a nice,
consistent user experience,
has a lot of interesting help
features that are optimized
for delivering content,
and it's very easy to
author and implement.
It's essentially four
steps to deployment.
Now some of the details I've
glossed over a little bit,
but that's because you already
have them available to you and
they're very straightforward.
You have documentation installed in your
system under Developer Documentation.
You should also visit
the Apple Help website,
which is at ADC, under User Experience.
There's a lot of references there,
some additional documentation,
and some pointers.
And if you do have
questions and comments,
here's how you can get a hold of
the Apple Help Engineering team.
Apple Help comments at group.apple.com.
It's a group mailing address,
and so we all read it.
We can't promise a reply,
but I do promise that we read
them all and take them seriously.
And you can visit the
Help Authoring Mailing List.
This is a public list.
It's very low traffic.
Go to list.apple.com and sign up for it.
There are a lot of Apple Help authors
on there who have tried various things
and know lots of ways to deliver help.
Post a question,
and you'll probably get an answer.
If you don't post anything,
you may think the list isn't
working because there's
not a lot of traffic on it,
but generally people who
use it get what they need.
And several members of the
engineering team monitor that list.
John Galenzi,
who is off busily preparing for the
spectacular Apple Design Awards,
which take place this evening,
is our contact person.
Information about your needs
in Apple Help and future
directions that you'd like to
see should be emailed to him.